hi I'm Diana Merkin and today I'm going
to show you how to make a whole meal
salad that follows the - diet guidelines
I call this my mix-and-match salad
because I'm gonna put in a few
ingredients today but you can change it
around to your heart's content any of
the ingredients that are on the dash
diet list can go into a salad bowl and
make a wonderful salad and you never get
tired of it because you can make it
different every single day I usually
start out with one of these romaine
lettuce heads that come in bags of three
they're very convenient and they are
available in pretty much every
supermarket just chop it up or tear it
up however you like to prepare your
greens and that gives you a good basic
leafy green serving or two for your
salad three or four cups of leafy greens
a day is something you should always
strive for and this makes a good way to
do that now I've got wonderful fresh
vine ripened tomatoes today so I'm going
to slice them up and chop them into the
salad if it was the middle of winter
time I'd probably use the little grape
tomatoes that are available year-round
but well you've got summertime vine
ripened tomatoes by all means take
advantage of them any vegetables you
like any fruits can go into your salad
I'm going to add some artichoke hearts
straight out of the can let's drain this
off first get rid of some of that
marinade and then just pour them into
the bowl that's some chickpeas this is
my favorite bean to put in a salad but
you can use kidney beans black beans any
bean you like chickpeas make a nice have
a nice texture to them now I'm going to
add a little bit of grated cheese
remember on the dash diet you can use up
to three servings a day of a low-fat or
nonfat dairy product
and cheese that comes the shredded
Romano cheese has a nuff flavor that a
little bit flavors the whole salad I'm
going to use some seafood today I have a
packet of salmon I love these new foil
packs that seafood comes in you can buy
cans of tuna or salmon or you can buy it
in these convenient foil packages which
you just need to open up and dump right
into the salad you don't have to drain
them at all make sure we get all of that
good stuff out of their salad dressing
for this salad is any light dressing you
like you can do just a little bit of
vinegar if you want a little bit of oil
and vinegar or you can pick any light
dressing that you like don't put too
much in just enough to mix and flavor
all the ingredients then toss it
together this is probably enough for two
maybe three people and there you have a
lovely wholemeal salad it's filling
enough because it has the beans in the
seafood in it it's got three different
kinds of vegetables plus the beans and
it's beautiful and tasty too now I do
this for lunch and dinner I don't
necessarily make the salad for the same
salad for lunch and dinner you just vary
your beans your vegetables start with
your leafy greens and add whatever you
like that's your lunch and your dinner
when you're doing this two-week
induction into the - diet if you want to
go out and do some other things with
your vegetables and your fruits and your
beans and your grains that's fine but
this just makes it so that nobody can
say I don't know how to cook I don't
know how to do things anybody can make
one of these mix and match salads next
we're going to talk about why you should
be eating this way to watch the other
segments in this video series or for
how-to videos on almost any other topic
visit monkey-see calm